#summary Instruction on using SmartSVN to Connect to the cfast SVN repository.

=Introduction=

[http://code.google.com Google Code] uses [http://subversion.tigris.org Subversion] (SVN) for version control.  Subversion is widely considered as an improved versioning method over CVS.  This Wiki page provides instructions on using a browser called _SmartSVN_ or the command line to obtain files from the cfast SVN Repository.

=Using SVN via the Browser SmartSVN=

[http://smartsvn.com SmartSVN] is available as freeware.  A for-purchase version of _SmartSVN_ is available that has additional capabilities, but for most users the free version will suffice.  Note that other programs are available (list of some found [http://subversion.tigris.org/links.html#clients here]).  

==Adding the Repository to SVN==

  * After installing _SmartSVN_, launch the program.  
  * The program will open with a _Welcome to SmartSVN_ window.  Select *Check out project from repository*.
  * A _Check Out Project_ window will open.  Select *Manage*
  * A _Repository Profiles_ window will open.  Select *Add*
  * An _Add Repository Profile_ window will open.
    * Select *HTTP* for the protocol
    * In the *Server Name* box type fds-smv.googlecode.com 
    * In the *Repository Path* box type /svn/trunk/cfast/trunk
    * Click *Next*
    * Select *Anonymous* for the SVN Login
    * Click *Next*
    * If you desire to see something other than the URL in _Check Out Project_ window select *Use This Profile Name* and enter a name.  'cfast' would be suitable here.
    * To check out the code follow the instructions in the next section.

==Obtaining Files==

===The First Time===
Once a project has been added to the repository it can then be checked out.

  * After launching _SmartSVN_, select *Check out project from repository*
  * A _Check Out Project_ window will open.  Using the drop down box select the cfast repository.
  * Click *Next*
  * _SmartSVN_ will scan the repository in display a directory tree.  The folders in the tree can be opened and closed with the *plus/minus* buttons.
  * Expand the _cfast_ folder, then select the 'trunk' folder under it.
  * Click *Next*
  * Type in or browse a *Local directory* where the files will be stored on your computer.
  * Click *Next*
  
At this point, the entire cfast project will be copied from the repository to your computer.

===After the First Time===

  * After launching _SmartSVN_, select *Open Existing project(s):*
  * Select the *Project Name* you wish update
  * Click *OK*
  * You can now select either a file or a subdirectory and click the green arrow to update your local files from the repository.



=Using SVN at the Command Line, without using SmartSVN client=

If you have SVN command line client installed, you can check out the cfast repository using the command line version of SVN. 

You can download the command line client for your platform here:
http://subversion.tigris.org/project_packages.html

Open a terminal/shell session and change to the directory that you want the cfast project folder to be placed within.  NOTE: the distinction between "https" and "http" below.

==Anonymous Checkout==
If you are not a member of the cfast development team, then type:

{{{svn co http://fds-smv.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/cfast/trunk cfast}}}

==Developer Checkout==
NOTE: Replace 'my_name' in the string below with your google account username.  This is the same username that has been given Project Member status in Google Code.

As a member of the FDS-SMV development team with commit privileges, type:

{{{svn co https://fds-smv.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/cfast/trunk cfast --username my_name}}}

You might be prompted for your password, but this is _*NOT* the password for your Google Account_, this is a special Google Code password that you can find through a link under the "Source" tab of the Google Code cfast project site.  It will be a random bunch of numbers and letters and nothing that you can specify. NOTE: the link will not be available unless you are a Project Member or Owner.  


Either way, a directory called cfast will appear in the directory where you executed the checkout command (the 'co' part of the string), with the contents of the FDS-SMV repository contained within.

==Updates==

To update your local copy of the repository, go to the sub-directory that you want to update (cfast in the example above) and type:

{{{svn update}}}

NOTE: This could be used to update any of the sub-directories under cfast.  If you change down to a subdirectory, like 'SOURCE_FDS5' and execute the svn update command, only that directory will be updated.

==Change or Commit Log==

To obtain a log of transactions for that particular sub-directory, type:

{{{svn log -r N:M > text_file.txt}}}

Which will record all transactions from SVN revision N to M in the file text_file.txt
By switching the order of the revision numbers you can sort the log in ascending or descending order by revision number.